# CookBuddy
A mobile cooking manager for college students! 

  **(Created by utlizing React Native with Expo CLI, JavaScript, JSX, and native development view components.)**

  CookBuddy was my project for the 2022 Pearl Hacks Hackathon! Two other collaborators helped come up with the logos and the idea itself, but I coded the project entirely on my own. CookBuddy is an iPhone application that aims to provide a centralized means for college students, as well as anyone else, to organize everything they need to efficiently work in the kitchen.

  When I first moved to my apartment off-campus, one of the key things I had to learn was how to become proficient in the kitchen. I had limited cooking experience from when I lived back home with my parents, but my roommate and I were now faced with meal planning every week, creating shopping lists, and, essentially, learning how to cook. As my experience in the kitchen grew, I started scouting various recipes online and became quicker at developing weekly plans, but there was still one problem: everything we needed was always located in different areas. 

  Meal plans and shopping lists were written down on paper or in a Google spreadsheet. Recipes were in my browser's Favorites Bar or screenshotted and saved somewhere within the jumble of photos in my phone. I was constantly asking my family to send me our family's favorite recipes. That's when the idea of CookBuddy came to be!

  Developed using Reactive Native with Expo CLI, this application currently houses the basic framework necessary for the app's first stage of implementation. There's a homepage with a currently static meal plan tile and shopping list, an information modal that details future ideas for the app, and a second dynamic page for the cookbook directory. The cookbook tab currently allows for users to "add new recipes" by clicking a button. After hitting the button, a modal appears and prompts the user for a photo of the recipe, the recipe name, and a basic description of the recipe. The user can either cancel or submit, but upon submittal, a recipe card appears in your cookbook with everything the user provided. 

  Going into this project, I had no previous experience with React Native development/mobile development in general, so after working on it for the duration of the Hackathon (24 hours), I am proud of what I have accomplished! One of the biggest challenges I faced (besides learning the new syntax for native development) was the implementation of arrays within the native environment. I had to re-learn how to initialize, call upon, manipulate, and render them in order to properly assemble the user cookbook.

  When thinking about the future of CookBuddy, I hope to implement more complex recipes cards (with type, scan, or link submittal) that the user can click on to see the full entire recipe. Along with this, the shopping list would be able to change dynamically, and if needed, users can look at a recipe and add things to their shopping list without having to navigate outside of their current screen or manually write anything down. CookBuddy would also have user accounts/athentication (for a more personalized experience), an alphabatized cookbook, a cookbook search feature, an ability to connect with friends and share recipes/mealplans, and a tab for measurement conversion (either metric to US or within US itself). CookBuddy may also look to utlize services such as the Google Cloud Suite in order to use cloud storage APIs that can properly store/backup a user's cookbook.
